Shortly after getting baptized,
I set the goal of becoming a regular pioneer.
Then I went to preach in an unassigned
territory where Miskito is spoken.
After that,
I started serving as a special pioneer.
And some time later,
I went to the School
for Kingdom Evangelizers.
Some time ago,
I began to suffer from kidney failure.
So it felt like I wasn’t
doing anything anymore,
and I couldn’t go back in time.
I grew up in a Christian family.
My dad worked in the construction
of the Bethel branch
and then served as a Bethelite for some time.
My mom was a regular pioneer
when she was younger.
She also volunteered at Bethel,
and that’s how she met my dad.
Some years ago,
I started suffering
from severe anxiety attacks,
and that really affected me
in the congregation.
I started to compare myself to others,
and I did the same with my parents.
I felt I could never
live up to their example.
I grew up in a family
where I wasn’t made to feel—
I never really felt adequate.
I felt so worthless;
I felt very alone.
When my health problems began,
I started comparing myself.
I began thinking about what
I was able to do before
and about how my activity had gone down.
This Watchtower  study helped me to see
how some previous assignments
could help me to do things better
in my current assignment.
That helped me to think
about what I can do now.
I think this Watchtower  article
came just at the right time.
I’ve learned that comparing
myself to others is very damaging,
and it was bringing me down spiritually.
So now that I’ve set the goal
to stop doing that,
I’ve seen good results.
I’ve had the chance to make good friends
with older brothers and sisters
in the congregation.
And when some of them
needed help and turned to me,
I was happy to help them,
and that encouraged me a lot.
When I started going to the meetings,
I was somewhat afraid
I was going to be inadequate
in the congregation.
Paragraph 20 of this Watchtower  study
helps me understand that I should
use the gifts that the congregation
and especially Jehovah
have helped me to discover
to encourage the congregation.
For example,
having raised two children
alone as a young, single mother
(being able to do that),
I could help others in the congregation
who were going through the same experience.
I’ve set concrete goals for myself,
like helping to clean the Kingdom Hall.
Although it’s lighter work,
it’s helped me tremendously.
It gives me a lot of joy
to know that it’s for Jehovah.
Now I try to help out the congregation
wherever I can.
Speaking to an audience
might not be easy for me,
but Jehovah has helped me
to carry out my assignments.
And that has helped me to realize
my place in Jehovah’s congregation.
This has helped a lot
in developing my self-esteem
—not to dwell on the past,
on the old feelings of inadequacy,
or dwell on the perfection
that I used to demand from myself.
I discovered I have something good
to give to the congregation.
The brothers need the good deeds
that we’re able to do.
It gives me a lot of joy to see
that I can help others overcome their trials,
and this really helps me understand
that I do have a role in the congregation.